Brought you a Bible. Lonnie.
Little late for saving souls.
ain't it. preacher?
I'd suggest Luke 21:36.
"Pray always. that ye may
be accounted worthy"
"to escape
all these things."
What do you think's in there?
What say you open it up. stick
your head in and take a gander?
Charliehorse.
we're under attack...
You've murdered my friends
and colleagues.
You blackmailed a man I
hold in the highest esteem.
You seem to have a comprehensive
knowledge of my life
that you could only realize
through an association
with someone close to me.
You don't recognize me. do you?
I want to know who hired you.
Gavin Pruitt was my husband.
Most people think the danger in a
situation like this is the cold.
The more immediate danger
is the oxygen supply.
Answer my question.
or you will suffocate long
before you freeze to death.
Gavin set up your
tax havens in Mauritius.
When the feds got to him.
you thought he would talk.
So you had him killed.
I want a name.
Raymond. it's Cooper.
Harold. what can I do for you?
Give me back my prisoner.
Which prisoner?
You know exactly who I'm
talking about. Reddington.
Isabella stone.
She's perfectly safe.
I have every intention of
returning her to your custody
as soon as she's given me
the information I need.
You've gone too far.
I just came from main justice.
They threatened to shut us down.
They're bluffing.
Are they?
From their point of view.
you've become a bigger
liability than an asset.
Harold. what's happening here?
You sound desperate.
From the beginning. this has been
all about serving your agenda.
And I've rolled
with that because
I genuinely believe this task force
makes the world a safer place.
You aren't being naive.
You're damn right!
Not anymore. Now. I want a name.
I want a big one.
Not some independent
contractor like stone.
You can't just order up
super-criminals
like Chinese takeout. Harold.
I want it now.
The architect.
London. 2014.
A tanker loading
diesel fuel explodes.
Ten minutes later.
a water main fails.
flooding Covent garden.
Only after authorities pumped
out the water did they realize
$100 million in diamonds had
been stolen from a nearby vault.
According to Reddington. this
was the work of the architect.
who for a price
will design. construct
and execute the perfect crime.
Cortina. Italy. 2011.
A safety canon malfunctions. setting
off a devastating avalanche.
Two weeks earlier. a Brazilian art
collector's home was broken into.
Nothing of value was stolen.
but panicked by the break-in.
the collector shipped a Caravaggio
to a secure facility in Geneva
whose director would be
killed in the avalanche.
The man who signed for the
old master was an imposter
and the Caravaggio disappeared.
Reddington says the architect is
in Philadelphia recruiting hackers
at an underground gathering
called black mass 13.
Sounds like a slasher movie.
More like a ghost story.
Black mass is where
the worst of the worst compete
to see who can hack
a set of security measures.
The winner's supposed to be
hired for the type of gig
that you don't come back from
with a soul.
CP. industrial sabotage.
real horror-show stuff.
Multiple hits on a hexadecimal
embedded in postings
containing the words
"black". "mass". and "13".
And we have...
We have a GPS coordinate
in Philadelphia.
The location of the convention?
Nope. This is just the first
step down the rabbit hole.
All right. guys. look for
anything out of the ordinary.
Hey. keen.
"If foo equals
first object oriented."
"Enter". then "bar".
then an "equals" sign. then the
words "binary arbitrary reason".
Totally what I was gonna say.
1955 south Hartford. Havertown.
What are we gonna do
when we get there?
It's all about pattern recognition.
Just keep your eyes open.
Hey. Did you talk
to Richard game?
No. but I think I was wrong.
About what? Game confessed
to killing you.
He's dead. Turns out
his mother's still alive.
So I'm going to see her.
Maybe she has some answers.
But wait. what were
you wrong about?
I didn't really care what
Richard game had to tell me
until I found out he was dead.
and now it's all I want to know.
Who my father was.
Who I was.
Why somebody wanted the world
to believe I was dead.
That's what I was wrong about.
saying it didn't matter to me.
But you were right.
It does.
I'll call you
if I found anything out.
We're here.
See anything weird?
I'm not loving the idea
of a rabbit-food smoothie.
but other than that. no.
Can you send me a photo?
Okay. I got it!
I'll have a penny candy. please.
Thank you.
Oh. my god. There are
so many combinations.
This is gonna take hours.
Here. let me see that.
How long did that take?
Agent Ressler. a word?
I'll give this to Aram.
Found an SD chip.
Aram should be able to use it
to locate the black mass.
Reven Wright was my superior
and my friend.
So I don't like this
any more than you.
but the inquiry
into her disappearance...
Reven Wright didn't disappear.
She was murdered by Laurel Hitchin.
We know that.
The inquiry is being shut down.
The president's national
security advisor is a murderer.
There's no evidence of that.
No witnesses.
No prints. No case.
The head of the justice division
doesn't just disappear.
But until we can prove it.
the case is closed.
Okay. I got something. It's
a pick-up point. I think.
248 Garfield. 3:20 P.M.
It says. "come alone
and wear a yellow hat."
We need to get an agent
to that pick-up point
to get into black mass
to ID the architect.
Yeah. but whoever we send in
would have to really
know their stuff.
Not just the programing but
the buzzwords. the culture.
It's gonna...
No. I can't.
Not after last time.
- You were amazing last time.
- Which part?
Getting beaten to a pulp
by my psycho girlfriend
or screaming our safe word like a
baby who needs his diaper changed?
The architect
is a mass murderer.
This is our only chance
to catch him.
We need you to do this.
We're hot.
I believe that will
do the job quite nicely.
Are you getting the CCTV feeds?
Okay. we have eyes.
Yellow hat. Gray blazer.
Very handsome.
And the TAC team is standing by.
They'll be in place
as soon as you give us
a location for
the black mass site.
So when I ID the architect.
they're gonna breach. right?
All right. Here we go.
Put this on.
Now. Let's go.
We're right here with you.
We're not going anywhere.
There's a man I know
who works as a docent
in a small museum
in the northwest.
He recently remarried.
Rotary Tuesdays.
Euchre Fridays.
A modest. but happy life.
Gavin and I played euchre.
Before you killed him.
Gavin was a brilliant accountant
and an even better man
who worshipped you.
When the feds
came asking questions
about the nature
of his relationship with me.
his only thoughts
were about whether
you and your children
would be safe
and well-provided for.
This person you described...
I didn't kill your husband.
I helped him walk away
from everything he loved
to protect you
and your innocence.
Ironic.
Where is he?
Who hired you?
I got an anonymous package.
detailing files
about every aspect
of your operations.
And your payment?
I received a credit stick.
It's in my apartment.
It's in the lining
of a red silk dress.
Now. my husband.
Where is he?
He's married.
He remembers you as you were.
To show him what you've become
would be devastating.
I'm not going to tell you
where he is.
But I will turn the heat up.
You must be chilled to the bone.
Aram. we're tracking you
through Lexington park.
You're going northeast
on Algon Avenue.
What's going on?
Bring up another camera.
Must be some sort of
jamming software.
Aram.
Cough twice if you can hear me.
Contact tactical aviation.
Give them specs on the Van
and a radius to work with.
I want surveillance images
within 10 minutes.
Who are you?
Uh. Ms. Lucy game?
My name is Frank Carraro.
If I could just have a moment of
your time. it's about your son.
My son is dead.
Have some respect.
I'm with the innocence project.
And we believe that your son
spent time in prison
for a crime he did not commit.
His name was
Christopher Hargrave.
Yeah. I remember.
Before he confessed.
did he talk to anyone?
A lawyer or his cell mate?
Did anyone approach him?
You obviously
didn't know my boy.
Richard killed a lot of people.
Took them apart
in the garage out back.
He did things to them
I'll never forget.
Finding out what really
happened. at this point.
would make a huge difference
to the people
who cared about
Christopher Hargrave.
Your services had better be used
for someone who
didn't belong in prison.
Richard never belonged
anywhere else.
Wait right here.
All right. move.
You looking for work?
You know. if the job's right.
What do you know about
batch credit card spoofing?
I've done some.
for cartels mostly.
Not that you look like
you work for a cartel.
Maybe you do.
How would I know?
I'm... excuse me.
I think I see an old friend.
Excuse me. Aren't you
supposed to be in jail?
Now's not a good time.
Oh. really? I'm sorry.
Am I inconveniencing you?
I said not now.
Yeah!
Five minutes to hackstar!
Nut up and get your hack on!
Whoa! Not a piggy-backed sql
injection like a rank amateur.
Getting tense. getting tense.
Come on. wizards.
Second prize
is a set of steak knives.
Third prize is your picture
on a milk carton.
Come on. come on. come on.
Yes! Take that. biatch!
All right. all right. all right.
We've got a new heavyweight
champeen of the world!
If they find out that we work
for the government. we're dead.
What do you mean. we?
51.3 seconds.
Excellent.
Do you really think
that the feds
are gonna let a prodigy.
like me. rot in a jail cell?
Is that a remote code Cypher?
Are you trying to steal
proprietary ideas?
Why do you think that I'm here?
I had three agencies fighting a
cage match to cut a deal with me
before your girlfriend even
finished reading me my rights.
She's not my girlfriend.
Oh. you're pathetic.
Wait. wait. wait.
Who won that cage match?
The NSA. Who do you think
I'm stealing for?
The NSA? Are you kidding me?
Come on.
3.7 seconds
ahead of schedule.
Who the hell are you?
It doesn't matter
who I am. Mr. Patel.
What matters is
I would very much
like to speak to the young man
who won your contest.
I don't know where he is.
How tragic.
Find him.
On the off chance
I don't have it already.
may I have your
attention. please?
Everyone. find a terminal.
There's something
I need you to do.
That's all we're getting?
Our techs can't figure out how their
encrypted feeds are being hacked.
The architect's
got us flying blind.
Not quite. The blackout is specific
to this six square block area
where the architect
doesn't want us to look.
Which means black mass
is in there somewhere.
And so is Aram.
Keen. find out what he wants.
Ressler. Navabi.
get a team on site.
We breach on
agent Mojtabai's signal.
I need to speak with Aram.
Do you know where they're
holding black mass?
It's urgent. Lizzy.
Because we don't.
And that's where he is.
What do you want?
To direct you to
a warehouse in Annapolis
operated by Newcastle ice.
Are you offering me free ice?
An ice queen. Isabella stone.
Returned as promised.
Did she tell you who
paid her to attack you?
Only that we share
the same bank.
One that guarantees its
depositors absolute privacy.
I was hoping Aram could pull
aside that veil of secrecy.
Help us locate black mass
and he can.
As I told Harold when he
browbeat me for a blacklister.
I'm otherwise occupied
and in no position to assist.
Sending Aram after the
architect was reckless.
His absence complicates
matters for me.
I'll inform main justice the
minute we have stone in custody.
We'll find out
if that appeases them.
And why you want
to appease them so badly.
will we ever find that out?
Who is that guy? I don't know.
My job was to ID him.
Okay. and then what? The
cavalry was supposed to come.
Tell me you have a plan B.
Yeah. I'm working on it. Elise.
Or whatever you're
calling yourself this week.
Come.
A us power grid has never
been compromised by hackers
for one reason.
It requires the combined
skills of people
who are unwilling
to work together.
Today. you will work
together unwillingly.
The architect is gonna
have the exits covered.
But the mercs have radios.
And if I can get one
and I can get to the roof.
I can notify the FBI.
The roof?
Please tell me you just said
that to impress me.
If you think you're that hot...
Well. you are. but I don't care.
What I do care about is the
lives of the people out there.
So just...
Okay. I need something
that burns.
Oh. crap. come on. this is wet.
Damn scarf.
Was any of it real?
It wasn't personal.
What we did at night
with the lights off?
That was personal.
The way you let me
feel about you.
I can't think of anything
more personal.
Hey.
Aram. whatever it is
that you're planning.
I've personally kicked your ass.
You're gonna
get yourself killed.
So help. or don't. I don't care.
Just get out of my way.
Groups one and three.
Commence your DDoS attack now.
Groups two and four. 10 seconds.
Without the contest winner.
our plan fails.
Find him.
Sierra 2. sitrep?
Negative contact. leader.
Group two and four. now.
Let me guess.
You were going to
clock me from behind?
No.
She was.
Torrent downloaded by RARBG
Ugh!
There's gotta be sewer access
in the sub-basement.
It's not too late to join me.
To run? I'm not going
to do that.
You do you. man.
Prepare to run
your rootkit scripts.
Three. two. one. execute.
Ready for your big day. Lonnie?
I do believe I am. warden.
Break emergency. requesting an
emergency autopatch relay to 911.
- Did you see the mother?
- Dead end.
She thinks her son
got what he deserved.
Emergency patch from switching control.
It's Aram.
Look. I have to go. but I'm
gonna make a few calls.
See what I can find out.
This isn't over.
Aram?
The architect has control
of the convention. I count
six mercs. heavily armed.
Where are you?
I don't know exactly.
But I'm gonna switch
this radio to tone.
so you can trace my signal.
Aram. agents Ressler
and Navabi are in the area.
We're on our way. Okay.
they're here. they're here.
Hands. keep them up!
Keep them up!
Find where he's
transmitting from.
Get the location to Ressler
and tell him to breach.
Well. you're a man
of many skills. mister...
Well. whoever you are.
I need those skills.
Count me out.
Like him?
I know who you are.
And that you're willing
to kill me if you have to.
You don't know who I am.
And I am not someone who's going
to help you commit a crime.
I'm not going to help you.
Samar!
Get down. grenade!
Liz. hey.
What did you find?
When Richard game
confessed to your murder.
he'd been sick for years.
He had a virus
called Jenkins-Fowler.
So what?
So it's incredibly contagious.
He lived under
constant quarantine.
Well. somebody talked game into
taking the fall for my murder.
His phone calls were monitored.
His letters were screened.
Every interaction was
supervised by prison doctors.
So maybe it was one of them.
Or maybe it was the one person
allowed unsupervised
visitation with game.
His mother.
She lied to me.
The team breached.
There's been an explosion.
Thanks.
No sign of Aram.
Must have been taken hostage.
Which means he's still alive.
But for how long?
We have no leads
on the architect's plan.
Aram is the plan.
Where is he?
Case number 91170086.
The us government
v. Janet Sutherland.
You might wanna look that up
before pulling the trigger.
You gotta be kidding me.
- All right.
- She cut a deal?
Full immunity. Cooper just
sent over the plea agreement.
She's now an asset for the NSA.
You said. "Aram is the plan."
What did you mean by that?
He won a contest. It was an audition
to hack a tranche of softwares.
I couldn't crack it.
A software for what?
A control panel
for some sort of facility.
sensor systems. RFID
tracking. security doors.
Do you know where?
The architect.
he made them launch
a cyber-attack
on a power grid
in Southern Virginia.
Where in Southern Virginia?
I don't know.
Look around. though.
This guy kills people.
Once he gets what he needs from
Aram. he's gonna kill him. too.
I know you said you didn't
want to be disturbed.
but you have a guest.
Not now.
He said it's urgent.
I wouldn't have come
if the circumstances
weren't extraordinary.
David. I need you to help me
identify a depositor at the bank.
You know the rules.
Yes.
and I have great respect
for them.
Then you know I can't help you.
Besides. I'm busy.
David. an account holder at
your bank has stolen my money.
damaged my businesses
and killed my associates.
I have the credit stick
the depositor used
to finance this
bit of nastiness.
but the data is encrypted
and I can't access it.
I need your help.
I need a name.
Is my jacket puckering?
Come Si dice "puckering"?
I need a name.
You know who the depositors are.
Complete privacy.
David. please.
Perhaps you don't
recognize polpetto.
The man is one
of the great living artists.
He rarely does portraits.
He's very selective in who
he portrays with his brush.
David. it's a painting.
What I'm talking about
is life and death.
The last three paintings
he's done.
one is hanging in the Whitney.
one is in the Tate modern.
one is in the Pompidou.
I could be hanging
in the Pompidou
if you would just
get the hell out of my house.
Now. go. please.
I owe you an apology.
You can't come in here!
I lied to you.
Get out.
I'm not Frank Carraro
with project innocence.
I'm Christopher Hargrave.
The boy you convinced
your son to say he killed.
I'll call the police.
I know about the quarantine.
his illness. you were the only one
who had unsupervised visitation.
I am warning you.
How much were you paid
and by who?
You had a sick son who
committed unspeakable crimes.
Letter come.
Special delivery.
Return address was
a Po box in New York.
$100.000.
If Richard said
he did something he didn't.
Your son gave the cops details
about what happened to me.
Things that weren't
in the papers.
I got a script.
What Richard
was supposed to say.
Do you still have it?
The architect.
According to Reddington.
he designs. constructs and
executes the perfect crime.
You figured out what he's
after in Southern Virginia.
Greenville
correctional facility.
one of the most secure
prisons in America.
home to Virginia's death row.
which is why they sent
Lonnie Perkins there.
The cop killer.
And President of the
Aryan revolutionary council.
Right now. they're the biggest
white supremacist gang
in the prison system.
Perkins is scheduled
to be executed tonight.
You think this is all about
breaking out Perkins?
The arc is exactly
the kind of organization
that would have the resources
to hire the architect.
Even if he took control of the
prison's internal systems.
they're not just going to
let Perkins walk out.
What's the Ace up his sleeve?
On my signal. you will execute
a remote takeover
of the software controlling the
internal operations of the prison.
Do you have any idea
how many firewalls
are built into
a system like that?
Twenty-six.
All disabled. thanks to a
state-wide blackout we created.
Even if that's true.
the prison's operating system
is physically segregated
from the Internet.
Only way anyone could communicate
with the software...
Is if someone inside the
prison installed a back door.
I'd like the door open. please.
In case any of our visitors feel
the need to step out for air.
It's locked.
I didn't close it.
Warden Mccaslin.
honored guests of the state.
please direct your attention
to guard tower 5.
Three.
two.
one.
It's gone.
The tower. it's gone.
The breakout. it's started.
What did Cooper say?
A guard tower in Greenville
has just been destroyed.
Any news about Aram?
That was your
second guard tower. warden.
For the sake of those in the third.
I do hope I have your attention.
Oh. god. I love
the smell of oil paints.
Ah...
Almost more than gasoline.
Why are there certain toxic smells
that just grab you that way?
Come Si dice. er...
"Kidnapping"?
You speak Italian?
There was a girl.
Of course there was.
Tell polpetto that I'm
a great admirer of his work.
Not so much his nudes. They're
a hair splayed for my taste.
And that I do apologize.
but I require his services.
What you're witnessing. warden.
are solid titanium rods
traveling at mach 7.
Who are you?
It's not important who I am.
What's important is that I
have control of your prison.
Once you release Lonnie Perkins.
I will return
that control to you.
That isn't going to happen.
The next rod
will strike the room
where you and your guests
are standing.
You have 30 seconds. warden.
to release Perkins.
The whole prison's locked down. sir.
All personnel.
Sounds like you don't have
much of a choice. warden.
I can still have that man
put a needle in your arm.
If I go down.
you're going down with me.
Target acquired.
Prepare to fire on my mark.
Please. you can't do this.
Last chance. warden.
Mach 7 leaves very little
time for equivocation.
Let him go.
It's Cooper.
Intersection of Mesa and
Ridgeline road. get there now.
You have a location
for the architect?
And Aram.
He's reached out using a device
he got from Janet Sutherland.
That bitch?
She's sitting right here.
Hey. Samar.
Turns out your boyfriend picked
up the remote code Cypher
during the attack.
It's meant to transmit data.
which it's doing now.
The data is meaningless.
but the signal is traceable.
He's sending an SOS.
At the end
of the hall is a door.
Once you pass through.
turn left to 1A yard.
Cycle gate 13.
Turn left. proceed 20 feet.
Two doors later
you'll see "inprocessing."
Turn right.
Open the gate.
If I set him free. more innocent
people are going to die.
Just open the gate.
Please. don't.
What is that?
Oh. that's... I don't...
No. no. please. please...
What do you think you're doing?
Nothing... I just...
If you shoot me. you'll never
be able to open the gate.
Just do it now.
Yes.
You can't do this.
I already have.
No. no. no.
Watch him.
He's getting away!
Don't let him get away!
Alert local authorities.
A black suburban is going up
Ridgeline Avenue. southwest.
Look. if he leaves now.
we lose him for good.
What are you doing?
He escapes. more people die.
Polpetto.
Reddington.
Oh. my goodness.
this is tedious.
I'd give almost anything
to have a scratch.
But seeing as how.
given your profession. David.
you might be more inclined
to squeeze them
rather than scratch them.
I won't impose.
I'll just wait
for the next break.
What's he...
Why is he painting
your portrait?
I only brought him here
to leverage you to kill him
unless you give me
the name of the depositor
who has declared war.
but once I properly
introduced myself.
the little fella
just lit right up.
I didn't fly him all the
way here to paint your...
Where is my portrait?
He needed the canvas.
Turns out he's a huge fan
of spaghetti westerns.
The anti-hero.
the outlaw. you know.
That's quite enough.
Out.
Shh!
He is the sweetest man.
It's going to break my heart
to put a bullet in his head.
but that's what will happen
unless you tell me
who at your bank
is coming after me.
You wouldn't.
I would.
In fact. what better way
to assure my place in history.
The last portrait by
a master. unfinished.
killed by his subject.
And you without a portrait at all.
It's a shame.
My business is based
on absolute privacy.
Okay. okay. okay.
Just stop.
Give me the stick
and I'll look into it.
But you have to promise.
please. spare the man's life.
We'll see how the portrait
turns out.
For agent Ressler.
Hey.
Case files. Reven
Wright's disappearance.
I thought Cooper said
that inquiry was closed.
Not to me it isn't.
I just got off
with the DC field office.
Perkins and the driver
were stopped on I-274.
They're in custody now.
I told you you would be amazing.
You don't have to say that.
It's true.
I killed a man today.
And by killing him. I prevented
us from interrogating him.
from getting information on his
other cases and clients. victims.
Aram. you did the right thing.
She's the reason
we were able to find you.
Hey. uh. Janet.
Uh...
I'm probably only alive
because of you.
so thank you for that.
It doesn't make up for...
You know.
You should go.
Hey. Aram.
I am sorry.
Don't.
The mother?
She was paid $100.000 to
convince her son to confess.
She admitted it. that's great.
Who paid her?
She doesn't know.
How is that possible?
She was paid in cash.
Half came in the script and half
came after game was convicted.
A script?
It has every detail.
The color of the beach house.
The tear in the screen door.
The knife block where
the murder weapon was found.
The pajamas you were wearing.
Yeah.
The night light in the hall.
Is any of this accurate?
It has to be. right? I mean.
I don't remember any of it.
You should show this
to your mother.
She probably knows something.
No.
Her pain about losing
her son seems real.
but Reddington says
I can't trust her.
That if I tell her I'm her son.
I'll never get the answers
I'm looking for.
Based on this. it seems like the
only way you will is if you do.
I just want to know
what was there to gain
from me disappearing.
And why was it so important
that someone confessed
to my murder.
And whoever wrote this.
what could they possibly want?
Yeah.
Harold. it troubles me
that you're dissatisfied
with the results of our efforts.
Doing good for selfish reasons
doesn't make you good.
It just makes you good
at being selfish.
I'm sorry about your daughter.
You've never spoken of her around
me. which of course. I understand.
But you've seemed
anxious of late.
When someone you love is sick.
you don't need to
shoulder that burden alone.
My daughter isn't a burden.
She's my greatest blessing.
I appreciate your concern.
but she's none of your business.
You want to know why those
closest to you betray you?
Why you're alone and hunted?
It's because even when you
try to do something good.
you cannot seem to understand
where your selfishness ends
and other people's lives begin.
Now. if you'll excuse me. I'm
going home to people who love me.
Raymond.
It's Levine.
David.
Is this some kind of test?
See if I would violate
client confidentiality?
What did you find?
You know what I found.
David. the name of the account
holder who paid Isabella Stone.
Who is it?
It's you. Raymond.
The money came
from one of your accounts.
That's not possible.
You have been
catastrophically compromised.
Forget having
your testicles scratched.
You've been castrated.